[Music]
okay so the Tesla Robo taxi unveiling
event was a couple days ago and it might
be the weirdest Tech event I've ever
been to um you might have seen some
clips from it at this point I was there
I rode in the self-driving Robo taxi I
explored the insane looking Robo van and
I talked to the Optimus robot and then I
left feeling kind of confused it was
just a it was a weird event so here are
the three main big reasons why so first
of all the rooc cab this was the the
main thing that we knew we were going to
see this this full unveiling of a fully
self-driving Tesla and we saw it and it
looked like this very very much like a
mini cyber Tru like you've got the light
bar on the front the light bar on the
back the complete lack of rear
visibility then of course you can see
it's a twodo two-seater passenger car
people wondering like what a full
self-driving Robo cab or cyber taxi
whatever we're calling it would actually
look like whether it look dramatically
different from a normal car like a model
3 or even a whmo and there are some
things that are significantly different
about this thing they rolled out I mean
on the outside it's uh it's light gold
every single one is this like silvery
gold color although there was never any
mention of actual materials pretty small
footprint you can see there's no
exterior door handles or mirrors or
anything like that and then since they
don't need need any steering wheel or
pedals they can sort of push the seating
position way back into this more like
loungy seating position kind of near the
middle of the car there's a center
armrest and there's a massive 21in
touchcreen in the center and yes the
doors go up as if Tesla hasn't learned
from their lessons of the model X
they're making another crazy set of
doors which honestly is definitely a hit
visually it's a striking feature of this
car alongside the wheels which at first
just look like these huge gold discs but
then when you take a closer look they're
actually just normal 21in low rolling
resistance Continental Tires but they've
painted half of the sidewall gold to
match the caps in the middle so it makes
it look like a super thin lowprofile
tire with a huge wheel but it's not it's
just paint but either way no idea how
much of this is going to make it to any
sort of final production but after
waiting in line for a bit I got to ride
in this thing for a few minutes so I got
in the screen told me to buckle my seat
belt and once I did the door
automatically closed pretty smart then I
just selected the destination which was
on this screen along this route which I
assume was prepped and then it just
started rolling just started going now
I've been in a self-driving Tesla before
but this one is just a little bit more
nervy since there's people everywhere
and there's no steer steering wheel in
front of me but once you get over the
eeriness of basically being trapped in
this driverless car with no manual
override I started looking around and
noticing a few other things you know you
sit pretty low to the road similar to a
model 3 but with more leg room since the
seating position is further back and
then there's even fewer physical
controls than ever before in this car
like I basically only found that the
window switches were in the middle next
to the cup holders I didn't even see any
door latches like the doors only opened
with a button on this enormous touch
screen so again like a Tesla it's going
to control everything in the car on the
screen including just watching movies
while the car is driving because why not
so you can watch the entire trip that I
took uncut on the autofocus Channel if
you want I'll link that below but then
the thing is that's kind of all we got
like there were shockingly few details
about the actual car actually explained
at this event other than basically like
the three main pillars which are going
to be in all the headlines which are
number one that it will be fully
unsupervised self-driving capable number
two that it will be able to be purchased
for under
$30,000 all right but then number three
that it would actually also charge by
inductive wireless charging so it pulls
up over this wireless charging pad on
the ground and it would charge that way
not something we've seen shipping in
very many cars especially not ones with
large batteries but that was it no no
other numbers no other specs just look
at this thing there's just concepts of a
plan I just had so many other questions
from after seeing that like what is
going on here I did at the event walk
around after the announcement and bump
into some Tesla engineers and people who
have been working on these things and so
I just ended up kind of grilling them
like I asked them a whole bunch of
questions so I'm going to tell you guys
what I learned from them and I guess we
can take their word for it so first of
all there is no steering wheel or pedals
as you can see so my first question was
all right let's say I see an accident
coming or there's something happening on
the road in front of me and the car
isn't reacting in time is there a manual
override and their answer I got was uh
sure there will be some sort of minimal
onscreen controls available but the goal
is that you never have to override which
is a noble goal for sure I just I mean
it's hard to imagine we live in a world
where that's impossible basically right
now but um I mean if you even with the
wireless charger picture you want to
like drive over over the top of it and
line it up perfectly because if it's if
it's off a little bit that's just a
giant waste of power but if I can't
adjust it like that would be terrible
but speaking of wireless charging you
might be wondering why they would try to
do this the main answer again is because
they want it to be totally autonomous
they want people to just be able to own
several like a fleet of these things and
they all just drive around and charge
themselves overnight and the whole cable
plugging in charging thing requires a
human so that's one less human required
it'll just line up on the notoriously
inefficient wireless charger but my
question again was okay is there at
least a charge port so if I want to
supercharge or charge quickly I can do
that and the answer was no there is no
charge port on this vehicle so it is not
even capable of hitting a Tesla
Supercharger or doing any sort of road
trips or anything like that it's purely
a taxi I'm told there's no plans for a
front trunk there's just the rear trunk
that they showed in this presentation
and there's no planned range or stated
battery size but what they did say is
they're simply aiming for this vehicle
to be as efficient as possible that's
their main goal between the aerodynamics
and the low rolling resistance tires
they think they can aim for about 5.5
miles per kilowatt hour some of the most
efficient electric cars we see today are
getting around 3 to 4 m per kilowatt
hour so this would be like an A+
efficiency if they achieve this and
that's what will let them use a smaller
overall size battery for the lighter
weight of the vehicle so it would be
nice they're saying to clear 200 Mi of
total range and that would put this at
maybe a 40 Kow battery pack instead of
the typical 70 to 130 so drivetrain wise
that logic does check out if you want to
make the cheapest most efficient
electric car of all time you got to hit
those things but then again you're also
telling us this while doing a car with
scissor doors and wireless charging so
that's you you're going to have some
challenges there for sure really I think
the obvious red flag the biggest red
flag to me is the the timeline stuff
that I mean this is notorious Elon stuff
he gets on stage he says we're going to
have this vehicle out for
$30,000 before
2027 no they're not there's just no way
that they're actually going to be able
to do that I mean if they if they do
let's say they do I will shave my head
on camera cuz I'm that confident they
won't do it like I want to be optimistic
but there's just too much stacked up
against it because in order to ship this
at all with no steering wheel and
everything they have to get all the
regulatory approval for the full
self-driving and all that and get all
the prices down in spite of inflation
and ship something with scissor doors
and all this stuff in the next two years
I just there's just no way Tesla's been
promising full unsupervised self-driving
for years over and over and over again
and consistently keeps pushing it back
but then also just
pricewise I get the goal but Tesla
promised a $35,000 model three and years
later I think they briefly actually
shipped that car for that price for a
little bit before discontinuing it cyber
truck I don't know if you remember the
do you remember the base price of what
they said the Cyber truck would cost at
the cheapest version when it came out
$39,000 and that was about what like
four or 5 years ago do you know what the
cheapest cyber Tru is right now
$95,000 so you can see where my
skepticism is coming from but even after
all that you know there's kind of a
philosophical question too which is what
is the difference between this this Robo
taxi thing and a model 3 because Tesla
has been promising for years that the
car that people are driving and buying
today is going to be capable of full
unsupervised self-driving like the model
3 and the model Y and it's actually not
clear if there's that many differences I
mean obviously okay one's going to have
a steering wheel and four doors and four
seats and the whole thing and maybe be a
bit more expensive but like
yeah what if my car is going to be able
to do all that stuff I I think I want
the one that can plug into superchargers
and do all sorts of carrying things
maybe this will be an oldfashioned way
of thinking sometime in the future like
every every car on the road is
autonomous and it's like an old school
thing to want the one with the steering
wheel that you can drive sometimes maybe
um I think the main advantage of the
robo taxi if it has the exact same
capabilities as a model 3 is it'll be
cheaper and smaller and easier to
operate in a fleet situation that will
probably be the main difference as far
as actually buying these things because
they've been selling people the dream of
the car that you buy and own today
you'll drive it to work and then when
you're at work it'll go drive people
around as an Uber for 10 hours or
however long and then you drive it home
when you need it and then when you're
sleeping it'll continue to drive an Uber
people around and so it has all these
amazing capabilities it'll do all this
great stuff but
will it though there's actually a moment
I had to rewatch The Event because I was
there and people are like yelling out
the whole time like stuff at Elon on
stage and at this point in the
presentation he goes like oh yeah model
3 and model y will also do full self
driving and then someone goes like what
about the Cyber
truck and then he says oh yeah don't
worry cyber Truck 2 so and it's cyber
Tru 2 yes of course sorry I don't want
to be getet yes yes all our cars
basically um so yeah okay all our
vehicles great but then it's kind of
quiet but then someone else yells out
what about Hardware 3 which is a
basically if you don't know a reference
to older model
3s and his response
so's let's not get Nuance here
um all right next slide so yeah not
let's not get to Nuance let's just get
all our cars will have it except maybe
some of the old ones all our cars will
be able to self-drive though totally
we'll cross that bridge when we get to
it how about that but here's a bridge
that I don't think we'll ever actually
get to cross which is the second thing
that was insane that was announced at
this event which is the robo van so
somewhere about halfway through this
presentation they roll out this one of
one super futuristic looking massive van
thing kind of looked like a it looked
like the military vehicles from iroot to
be honest which that's probably not a
good thing but yeah it rolls out and
they give us again very very few details
this is going to be a robo van that can
hold like up to 20ish people and again
be fully electric and fully autonomous
and take groups or teams of people from
point A to point B no manual override
necessary great have you ever been to
CES have you ever heard of have you ever
watched videos from CES every year in
January there's this trade show it's
really fun in Vegas and uh if you ever
go you'll notice in the South Hall
there's a section with all the cars the
the mobility section and you'll find
about 50 of these every year there's
just like a van with no steering wheel
and a bunch of seats that all face the
middle and it's like the future of
Mobility concept there's tons of those
none of them ever ship of course because
there are rules but I guess there's not
to me a whole lot that differentiates
that brief concept we saw at the Tesla
event with the dozens of other vaporware
versions of this that I've seen before
that's all I'm saying I mean the fact
that this one comes from Tesla is the
main differentiator this is the company
that could maybe theoretically make it
happen but like I said there's almost no
details about this thing and I have
almost no faith that that thing that
they showed with its minimal clearance
and its glass everywhere and just lack
of numbers or anything I don't think
that we'll ever actually see that thing
I could eat my words but like that seems
crazy but then last but not least Tesla
decided to bring back they decided to
remind us that they're also an AI
company not just just a car company by
bringing back out the Optimus humanoid
robot again so they had these things all
over this event this time dancing doing
these pre-rehearsed demos but also they
were just kind of out and about they
were serving drinks and snacks and they
were walking around and interacting with
and entertaining people just like
hanging out amongst everyone at this
event now I already have my thoughts
that I've talked about you know humanoid
before I made a whole video about it if
you want to watch it I'll leave a link
below the like button I've talked about
Tesla's Optimus but even just what we
saw with that would have been a huge
step forward from what we've ever seen
like this would have been one of the
most impressive things ever but then
they decided to take it further they
also decided to have these robots
talking to
people and it was just I mean it was way
too fast to be an llm like it's just
I'll have just watch this watch this
clip would I some
chocolates right on what's your name
Vanessa Vanessa yes
Vanessa pleasure to meet you
Vanessa a thank you like it's just it's
just a person it's a person talking
through a speaker it it even like
stutters and makes occasional like human
mistakes if you watch a bunch of videos
from the event a bunch of different
robots all have slightly different
voices
yeah it was a person for sure and it's
weird because Tesla at no point at least
as of the time of recording has not
acknowledged this at all they haven't
said that or confirmed that but people
there at the event have heard various
things from various Engineers I talked
to two Engineers who only would tell me
uh yes all of the llms Do Run totally on
device uh but like yeah I don't that no
I don't think so so this kind of became
like the talking point of the whole
event like how now we don't know how
much of this event was real or not so
real like how much of what these robots
are doing is human controlled or AI you
know there were all kinds of hand waving
and gestures and movements I played
charades with one of them you know what
it reminds me of remember that video I
did at Disney's imagineering Labs where
they had these these bipedal robots that
were controlled by a steam deck
controller they did all kinds of walking
around and stringing animations together
to entertain people at the Parks there's
just a bunch of button presses and
controllers to make that happen and sure
there's some AI to blend that stuff but
you could never deny that there's
basically entirely human control
happening here and that's basically what
I think is happening at this Tesla event
lots of impressive and entertaining
things in the form of a super Advanced
articulating robot stringing animations
together but there's it's just not
totally ready to do this stuff on its
own we've never seen anything quite like
it even from Boston Dynamics but we got
to be real about the human assisted part
but the thing is the dream that they are
selling people with this specific robot
is that this thing will live with you
basically it will be your
humanized friend actually they said that
it would be your friend it would do
chores for you it would live around you
and and be able to do all these sorts of
tasks on its own using the AI and the
vision based system that's I think
that's a really far-off dream AI is
really really quickly improving but I
still think that's a far off dream so
you know to their credit this event it
was insane like they did a lot of things
that could have gone wrong and if you
told me in 2024 that a company would do
a bunch of self-driving car demos around
tons of people just loose in the road
and they would have bipedal humanite
robots roaming around performing tasks
and entertaining people at the same
event and that they would have a drone
show like that is just a lot of stuff in
a row that is super Hightech that could
go wrong but somehow didn't and it
represented I think a very optimistic
view of the future even though it's very
much still like
Concepts it's it's a future that is
potentially way more efficient
potentially way safer and more
impressive in general technologically
than the the world we live in today so
that by itself I think is Honorable the
the the things that they were hoping to
be real would be amazing and
inspirational and honorable if they
actually happened but since they're also
a public tech company they uh they felt
the need to do demos and give all these
big promises and that's where it felt
weird because it's really hard to make
promises about when we're going to
deliver this future and for what price
we're going to deliver this future when
it just feels very unlikely and then
doing the like robots talking it's just
like now the whole is in question like
how much of it is real how much of it is
fake and now we're focusing on that
instead of how cool the future could
someday actually be that's where I'm at
but hey if there is one company that has
the best chance of bringing this all to
life if there's if you made me bet money
on one company that I think has the best
odds to get there
eventually then yeah it would be the one
with the massive data Gathering
Advantage with stuff out there in the
real world today it it would be Tesla
so I'll believe it when I see it thanks
for watching catch you guys in the next
one peace